---
title: What Do You See?
layout: page
date: 2017-06-18
thumbnail: 
---

To preface, if you only read one article from this section, read the interview with Dr. Mazviita Chirimuuta.

If you've ever looked at an optical illusion—maybe the wine glass/two faces—it's fairly obvious that our perception of reality is subjective. You'll see the wine glass if you want to see the wine glass.

Olivia Goldhill's article takes us one step further to say that we actually see the world differently, in a visual sense, depending on our personalities. In particular, being more open-minded allows us to absorb more information.<sup>1</sup> Similarly, Ephrat Livni writes that we should cultivate a neutral attitude in order to take in the bigger picture, or else we're subject to our preconceived notions. After all, most of us can admit to having inexplicable neuroses that cause us to "decide the significance of events when their relevance is unknowable," so cultivating an open, neutral approach seems reasonably productive.<sup>2</sup>

In addressing the idea that we experience reality subjectively, Goldhill and Livni both treat it as a problem. Their solutions suggest that there is a true reality we're missing, whether that's a whole visual picture or a neutral third-party view of a situation, but should we fixate on truth?

Dr. Mazviita Chirimuuta's work is about how we perceive colors. She proposes that our color perception is neither a result of pure physics, nor an illusion, but instead it's a property of the interaction between the physical world and our minds. Again, if you want to see a wine glass, you'll see a wine glass, but Chirimuuta's approach differs in that her assertion doesn't hinge on the importance of truth. She says, “the senses are our means to understanding the world. Does that mean all of our knowledge is subjective? And if so, is that a bad thing?" <sup>3</sup>

<sup>1</sup> [Visual Perception and Personality](https://qz.com/997679/open-minded-people-have-a-different-visual-perception-of-reality/) (3 min read)

<sup>2</sup> [Cultivating Neutrality](https://qz.com/991849/stop-being-positive-and-just-cultivate-neutrality-for-existential-cool/) (4 min read)

<sup>3</sup> [Mazviita Chirimuuta on Color](http://nautil.us/issue/26/color/ingenious-mazviita-chirimuuta) (14 min read or 15 min video) 

## Short Stack
[Invisibilia: Reality Pt 1](http://pca.st/sQ92) (44 min listen)  

[Helen Tran on Commitment](http://helentran.com/oncommitment) (4 min read)

["Maker" Schedules](http://calnewport.com/blog/2017/04/05/why-are-maker-schedules-so-rare/) (10 min read)

**In the Kitchen**   
[Cucumber Kimchi](http://luckypeach.com/recipes/momofuku-cucumber-kimchi-aka-oi-kimchi/)

I like pickles. I don't love them the way some people do, the ones who go out and try all the pickles at the farmers market, but I like these pickles from the Momofuku cookbook a lot. If you cook Asian food a fair amount, you should have most of the non-produce ingredients on hand. Serve them on a tiny dish to add a bit of brightness to your meal. It'll be great.

**Current Longform**  
*An Artist of the Floating World* by Kazuo Ishiguro

Soon to be *The Three Body Problem* by Liu Cixin