---
title: Lateral Thinking, Money and Stuff
layout: page
date: 2017-08-27
thumbnail: 
---

## That Memo
I didn't want to title this email after the Google memo, but then I wrote a long thing about it after all.

[The Vergecast: Google Memo, Surface Laptop, and Upcoming Phones](http://pca.st/FQJc) (62 min listen)  
The Vergecast hosts give their take on the Google memo and some other tech news. The discussion here is pretty one-sided; I don't think anyone defended Damore or really dug into Google. However, it was a fairly decent intro to one side of the situation.

[Another Take on the Memo Result](http://nautil.us/blog/outraged-by-the-google-diversity-memo-i-want-you-to-think-about-it) (8 min read)  
Sabine Hossenfelder's article about the Google memo shares an interesting perspective on the situation: she seems to agree with many of the overarching criticisms of James Damore's memo but disagrees with his being fired from Google on grounds that it was a shutdown of his trying to independently analyze the diversity policies at Google. I find a stronger argument in the Vergecast discussion about how Damore made the work environment around him unproductive by criticizing and judging his peers in an unconstructive way, leading to his being fired. While I disagree with Hossenfelder's conclusion about Damore's firing, I think she makes some really strong points regarding affirmative action and the morality of diversity, one of Damore's key points. A worthwhile read, especially if you've had the chance to look over Damore's memo.

Sidenote: while reading Damore's memo, I found some issue with his statement: "We need to stop assuming that gender gaps imply sexism." I think his rationale here is a [fallacy of difference](http://rationallyspeaking.blogspot.com/2011/07/fallacy-of-difference-in-science-and.html). To be specific, Damore believes the causes of gender gaps lie in the differences between men and women; with that assumption, the gap should only be as large as the gap between traits (I'm using broad brush strokes here, since I'm unsure what statistic terms would actually work in this case. Hopefully my point is clear). However, the gap is huge, especially in tech. Wouldn't it be more logical that the cause is something bigger? Maybe something like ingrained gender roles and biases that we all have?

## Short Stack
[Lateral Thinking](http://99u.com/articles/31987/how-to-apply-lateral-thinking-to-your-creative-work) (6 min read)  
Feeling stuck? Try lateral thinking. I like having a general process, a workflow or strategy in approaching a new task or problem, but sometimes I just feel like I'm walking the same mental paths in circles. Lateral thinking can be useful here, since it helps you break out of that routine.

[Everything You Wanted to Know About Money](http://pca.st/EQsy) (44 min listen)  
This is another piece about personal finance and the lack of personal finance education. As the Freakonomics blurb states, "70 percent of Americans are financially illiterate." Pretty amazing when we all handle money every single day. If you don't feel like you know what you're doing with your money, give this a listen. It's not too overwhelming. If you're already schooled in the basics of personal finance, feel free to skip this.

**In the Kitchen**  
[Pasta with Sausage, Mushrooms, and White Wine Cream Sauce](https://www.garnishwithlemon.com/pasta-with-sausage-mushrooms-and-white-wine-cream-sauce/)  
I made a variation on this, skipping the white wine, rosemary and nutmeg; and using chorizo and some cayenne pepper. Delicious and carb-ful.

**Current Longform**  
*An Artist of the Floating World* by Kazuo Ishiguro