---
title: On Money
layout: page
date: 2017-06-25
thumbnail: 
---

I've been thinking about some of the important, commonplace issues that we seem to avoid discussing openly or only with hesitation. One that I often think about is personal finance, something that affects people all the time in both a practical and psychological manner, and yet we tend to relegate it to vague terms in conversation. It's pretty absurd how little early education there is on personal finance; I don't recall having any substantial lessons about how to handle money as an adult, even late in high school when a vast majority of students were planning their post-graduation decisions.

I was already in college before I really understood how much money a four-year college education costs relative to an average income. Before that, I didn't really understand what a realistic yearly income looked like, how that translated to day-to-day life, and how six figures in college tuition could change one's lifestyle. In this sense, it's a practical matter; it's important to be taught how much things cost and realistically how to handle expenditures big and small.

However, the psychological and philosophical ways that finance affects us are even more complicated. Money influences how we navigate our lives, what we buy, how much we work—even how we measure our success and self-worth are often tied to money: Do I deserve the things I've purchased? Wong's post is a good intro to thinking about how to "free" yourself from money in order to focus on the rest of your life<sup>1</sup>. Managing your finances isn't just about earning a high income, though it does feel good to get that "high score." Understanding personal finance is about having the choice to do things based on values you care about, not just based on price tags.

Financial independence is another way to live more deliberately, to be fully awake in life and to be able to see the "water" around us.<sup>2</sup>

<sup>1</sup> [Financial Independence: It's Not About the Money](http://www.thewildwong.com/financial-independence/) (5 min read)

<sup>2</sup> [This Is Water, David Foster Wallace](https://youtu.be/8CrOL-ydFMI) (23 min video)  
Yes, I'm linking this again.

## Short Stack
[Elephant In The Valley](https://www.elephantinthevalley.com/) (5 min read)

[To Stay In Love, Sign On The Dotted Line](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/23/style/modern-love-to-stay-in-love-sign-on-the-dotted-line-36-questions.html) (8 min read)  
This is my if-you-only-read-one-thing pick for the week. I may have teared up reading this one :')

[The Awkward Yeti: Gallbladder's Day](http://theawkwardyeti.com/comic/gall-bladders-day/) (comic)

**In the Kitchen**  
Marinated Tomatoes

I've only been a real fan of tomatoes for maybe the last two years. It took a while (over two decades, I suppose) before I tasted (and deigned to notice) a delicious tomato from my grandpa's garden. I've been a tomato convert since. Even if you're not a tomato lover, I think you'll still find this recipe tasty. Mix all the ingredients together, chill for 20 minutes, then serve.

Ingredients
- 1 pint red grape tomatoes
- 1/4 onion, chopped
- 1/8 - 1/4 cup olive oil
- 1.5 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
- 1/4 tsp dried parsley
- 1/4 tsp dried basil
- 1/2 teaspoon sugar
- Salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste

**Current Longform**  
*The Three Body Problem* by Cixin Liu